Brother Hobby H743 (#29620)
ArduPilot/ardupilot: libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/BROTHERHOBBYH743/README.md

# BROTHER HOBBY H743 Flight Controller

The BROTHERHOBBYH743 is a flight controller produced by [BROTHERHOBBY](https://www.brotherhobbystore.com/).

## Features

 - STM32H743 microcontroller
 - ICM42688P IMU
 - SPL06 barometer
 - AT7456E OSD
 - 12V 3A BEC; 5V 3A BEC
 - SDCard
 - 7 UARTs
 - 13 PWM outputs

## UART Mapping

 - SERIAL0 -> USB
 - SERIAL1 -> UART1 (ESC Telemetry)
 - SERIAL2 -> UART2 (RX/SBUS, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL3 -> UART3 (Spare, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL4 -> UART4 (Spare)
 - SERIAL6 -> UART6 (DJI, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL7 -> UART7 (GPS, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL8 -> UART8 (Spare)

## RC Input

> The default RC input is configured on the UART2_RX inverted from the SBUS pin. Other RC  protocols  should be applied at other UART port such as UART3 or UART8, and set the protocol to receive RC data: `SERIALn_PROTOCOL=23` and change SERIAL2 _Protocol to something other than '23'

Author: Fixed

## FrSky Telemetry
 
FrSky Telemetry can be supported using the T1 pin (UART1 transmit). You need to set the following parameters to enable support for FrSky S.PORT
 
  - SERIAL1_PROTOCOL 10
  - SERIAL1_OPTIONS 7
  
## OSD Support

> The BROTHERHOBBYH743 supports OSD using OSD_TYPE 1 (MAX7456 driver).

Author: Fixed

## VTX Support

The SH1.0-6P connector supports a standard DJI HD VTX connection. Pin 1 of the connector is 12v so be careful not to connect incorrecly.

## PWM Output

> The BROTHERHOBBYH743 supports up to 13 PWM outputs.

Author: Fixed

Channels 1-8 support bi-directional DShot.

PWM outputs are grouped and every group must use the same output protocol:
 - PWM 1-2   in group1
 - PWM 3-4   in group2
 - PWM 5-6   in group3
 - PWM 7-10  in group4
 - PWM 11-12 in group5 - servo 1/2
 - PWM 13    in group6 - LED strip

## Battery Monitoring

The board has a internal voltage sensor and connections on the ESC connector for an external current sensor input.
The voltage sensor can handle up to 6S LiPo batteries.

The default battery parameters are:

>  - BATT_MONITOR 4

Author: Fixed

>  - BATT_MONITOR 4

Author: Fixed

 - BATT_VOLT_PIN 10
 - BATT_CURR_PIN 11
 - BATT_VOLT_MULT 11
 - BATT_CURR_SCALE 40.2

## Compass

The BROTHERHOBBYH743 does not have a built-in compass, but you can attach an external compass using I2C on the SDA and SCL connector.

## Loading Firmware

Initial firmware load can be done with DFU by plugging in USB with the bootloader button pressed. Then you should load the "with_bl.hex" firmware, using your favorite DFU loading tool.

> Once the initial firmware is loaded you can update the firmware using any ArduPilot ground station software. Updates should be done with the "*.apj" firmware files.

Author: Fixed

# BROTHER HOBBY H743 Flight Controller

The BROTHERHOBBYH743 is a flight controller produced by [BROTHERHOBBY](https://www.brotherhobbystore.com/).

## Features

 - STM32H743 microcontroller
 - ICM42688P IMU
 - SPL06 barometer
 - AT7456E OSD
 - 12V 3A BEC; 5V 3A BEC
 - SDCard
 - 7 UARTs
 - 13 PWM outputs

## Pinout

![BROTHERHOBBYH743 Board Top](Top.png "BROTHERHOBBYH743 Top")
![BROTHERHOBBYH743 Board Bottom](Bottom.png "BROTHERHOBBYH743 Bottom")

## UART Mapping

 - SERIAL0 -> USB
 - SERIAL1 -> UART1 (ESC Telemetry)
 - SERIAL2 -> UART2 (RX/SBUS, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL3 -> UART3 (Spare, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL4 -> UART4 (Spare)
 - SERIAL6 -> UART6 (DJI, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL7 -> UART7 (GPS, DMA-enabled)
 - SERIAL8 -> UART8 (Spare)

## RC Input

> The default RC input is configured on the UART2_RX inverted from the SBUS pin. Other RC  protocols  should be applied at other UART port such as UART3 or UART8, and set the protocol to receive RC data: `SERIALn_PROTOCOL=23` and change SERIAL2 _Protocol to something other than '23'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default RC input is configured on the UART2_RX inverted from the SBUS pin.  All unidirectional ArduPilot compatible protocols, except PPM, are supported. Receivers using bi-directional protocols such as CRSF/ELRS should be tied to the TX2 and RX2 pins.

 
* FPort requires connection to TX2 . See :ref:`FPort Receivers<common-Fport-receivers>`.
* CRSF/ELRS also requires a TX2 connection, in addition to RX2, and automatically provides telemetry.
* SRXL2 requires a connection to TX2 and automatically provides telemetry. Set :ref:`SERIAL2_OPTIONS<SERIAL2_OPTIONS>` to “4”. 
```

## VTX Support

The SH1.0-6P connector supports a standard DJI HD VTX connection. Pin 1 of the connector is 12v so be careful not to connect incorrecly.

## PWM Output

The BROTHERHOBBYH743 supports up to 13 PWM outputs.

Channels 1-8 support bi-directional DShot.
All outputs except 11/12 support DShot.

PWM outputs are grouped and every group must use the same output protocol:
 - PWM 1-2   in group1
 - PWM 3-4   in group2
 - PWM 5-6   in group3
 - PWM 7-10  in group4
 - PWM 11-12 in group5 - servo 1/2
 - PWM 13    in group6 - LED strip

## Battery Monitoring

The board has a internal voltage sensor and connections on the ESC connector for an external current sensor input.
The voltage sensor can handle up to 6S LiPo batteries.

The default battery parameters are:

 - :ref:BATT_MONITOR<BATT_MONITOR> = 4
 - :ref:BATT_VOLT_PIN<BATT_VOLT_PIN__AP_BattMonitor_Analog> = 10
 - :ref:BATT_CURR_PIN<BATT_CURR_PIN__AP_BattMonitor_Analog> = 11
 - :ref:BATT_VOLT_MULT<BATT_VOLT_MULT__AP_BattMonitor_Analog> = 11

>  - :ref:BATT_CURR_SCALE<BATT_CURR_SCALE__AP_BattMonitor_Analog> = 40.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - :ref:BATT_AMP_PERVLT<BATT_AMP_PERVLT__AP_BattMonitor_Analog> = 40.2
```
